Hello again you awesome got to people in this video.
Let's add some quite the level let's help Bunny get rich.
We learn about animation plan notes but before I get too ahead of myself let's just talk about what
adding points to level is going to entail.
So what are coins going to do in Happy Days.
Well first they're going to spin gently around the place.
I want to really encourage players to pay attention to them.
And it's a gentle spin animation is a great way of doing that.
We're also going to have them shrink and vanish when the collected.
We're not just gonna have them vanish in the scene with no no effect.
Let's have a nice little effect that helps them shrink and vanish as I'm repeating this.
I realize that this is kind of redundant but you know we're going to have a shrink vanish.
Let's also give Bunny extra life and enough of these coins are collected what enough means is up to
you.
But let's say every 10 coins every 20 coins you get your life.
Which means we need to update the gooey the player should know how many coins they've got so they can
make decisions.
Okay.
So let's get right into it.
First we need to do is make a brand new scene.
And this is going to be a 2D scene so I'm sure to click on 2D and I'm gonna call this coin as a child
of coin.
I'm going to put an animated sprite.
I could have made the animated sprite the parent but I'm fine with the no 2D being the parent.
Okay.
So here's our animated sprite.
There's no sprite in it under graphics under items you'll see there are four things called bronze one
two three and four.
These are the coins.
So let's make and use sprite frame and click on that.
So make sure this Sprite frames open and I'm you to rename this spin and I'm just going to select all
for these helps shift and clicked 1 and 4 and drag them in as looking pretty good but it's suddenly
snapping right.
So it goes from full on to sideways and it's snapping back full on.
That's okay.
All I need to do is repeat this one which is number three.
Whoops.
Cancel.
So select my three and bring that in.
And then number one again which is bronze to and now it looks at the entire thing is spinning.
Actually it's not.
But it's what it looks like.
And we could probably speed that up a bit.
When you think seven 10 too fast I quit like ten but that might be too fast for your game but looks
good to me right now this is just an animated sprite.
Okay.
There is no way for this to interact with money in order to interact with money.
We're going to have to detect when Bunny is entering the area and that's our clue.
This is an area 2D problem so area 2D and that's going to need a collision shape.
Right.
So let's add a collision shape patootie if you got a sudden cut in the video that one of my cats kaboodle
has decided that now is a really good time to explore the cupboard is next to me.
We just moved house.
She's very excited.
This is the cupboard I'm keeping all my lighting equipment so she's making an incredible noise.
No that's interesting to you right now.
But I'm interested.
OK.
We've got a collision shape.
Let's get an actual shape that's into a circle shape and zoom in and just bring the extent out to it
looks pretty good.
Great.
Now you'll notice that if the bunny isn't now you'll notice there are frames where the coin is small
the collision shape.
I'm not expecting the player to ever notice that it's going to look much smaller than this.
However I want to get a collision and make sure that we're on the right one.
So a coin is an item and not a player.
Let's take it off the player layer and put on items and it can only interact with player.
It cannot interact with terrain hazards or items.
This is important.
We don't want the coin to be picked up because it's it's touching on the coin or because it's touching
the screen.
OK.
So I want to hide that collision shape.
That's looking good.
But I want to stop the coin from spinning while I'm working on it because it's distracting me that way.
OK I can minimize area today.
We've got a collision shape.
It's done.
Next up I want a sound effect so I gonna put an audio stream player to Dee Why 2D.
Because position is going to matter for this one.
And if we go into two to do SFX there's coin SFX we have that in there and let's listen to it.
If it's too loud or too quiet we can make this quieter.
Minus 15.
Very quiet.
I won't keep on at zero but if you need to change the volume that's how you can do it.
So far so good.
Let's give coin a script and it can be called coin G.D. but this should go in the items folder.
So item coins they've got.
And you know what we should probably save the scene as well so let's save the scene in items as coin
awesome.
The reason we're doing this is we want to send a signal when Bunny enters here we're gonna send a signal
to the script.
So let's get a note on body entered connect that to the coin should double check that the only thing
that can interact with it is the place you're an item and you can only interact with players.
Great.
Now when to fill this in in a moment but first there's one more object I need in here.
One more note I need an animation player animation player container and player of animation resources.
OK.
That doesn't sound very helpful.
What can animation player actually animate.
Well we've had a slight for that it can animate basically anything.
What is it basically anything.
This is actually pretty much anything animation players are incredibly versatile.
Any variable any function any property that you could change the inspector can all be triggered and
animated and changed an animation player which is incredibly useful.
Let me show what I mean.
So here's my animation window and right now it's telling me it's not playing an animation so I've got
two animation and I'll make a new animation and on a call this die.
This is.
This is what's going to happen to the coin when it's being collected.
Now we'll see here with a timeline and we can change the length of the timeline.
We've got snaps at the moment we are snapping every zero point one seconds.
But if we wanted to we could change to zero point five seconds which means we could only interact with
the animation at those steps and put it back to zero point for now.
And we've got a bunch of tracks.
If I add a track it says OK this a property is the transformers it's a method.
Is this audio playback.
There's a lot we can do with this.
Well first thing I feel like this animation should be pretty quick.
I changed the total time here to zero point five and I don't want this looping.
It's all on your own once and it's not going to auto load auto it is this arrow button here.
OK.
So right now we have a half second animation that does nothing.
I'm going to hold control and scroll in so I can actually see the points when we connect to the coin.
The coin is going to change sides.
It's going to change the scale and we could just do it here in this no 2D.
So if this changes scale everything but it will change scales to right that's what we want.
Now I could go add track got a property and then tell it which note is gonna be animated and make the
coin and what's property going to change.
I would change the scale cancel that because I could also just go to coin and you'll see there are no
keys.
Well I would chase the scales.
I would put a key here.
Are you creating a new track.
Yes I am.
And this is a key frame that tells it that on this frame here is the information.
Let's say on this frame I want this to be zero point zero one in both directions.
Now the key here when I scroll this back look what happens.
In fact we go a little bit fancy let's say at zero point two.
You're actually going to be at one point five and put a key in there and then I press play because this
isn't exactly center this bit and this bit are different speeds but look at the dramatic change which
we're going from one to one point five and then from one point five all the way down to zero point zero
one.
OK.
So I'm gonna see what that looks like in the animated sprite.
Put that back on playing go back to my animation player and press play right now we don't have this
looping.
If we did it would look like this looping on.
That looks really trippy.
So let's actually make this work.
Somebody go into my coin.
All right.
Very first thing I want to do.
Let's just check this work.
So on area 2D body entered and I'm just going to go animation player dots and I can look up all things
I can do by press control and open the documentation in but I happen to know that this is command called
to to do play and I just want the string name great.
So play and it only has one animation so I was going to pick the one it gives me.
Okay let's put a coin into my level I'm going to put another of these nodes in as a organization tool.
So just a basic node and you're gonna be called coins.
I'm going to drag it to be underneath has it's just a little bit of organization.
And let's instance in a coin
okay it's gonna come in at 0 0.
So let's move that and for now let's put it right here.
So let's first play and want to touch the coin.
Now a couple of things one coin is still there.
All right.
So every time I enter it that operation is of some.
So I need a way for the coin to vanish.
Okay.
So let's make any function.
And I mean to call the function die.
Now I'm calling the function die and the animation die.
These are two different things.
Okay.
So we're gonna do is the cue free.
Great.
So how do we call that.
Well let's get to the very last frame we couldn't change right sir.
Zero point five seconds out of track and hit.
Call method methods and functions are largely interchangeable.
What no m8 coin.
And I can.
And now I can enter a new key I'm sure.
Right Click here to insert key and here all the different things I could do.
Well I happen to know what is called dice which would type it in script methods.
Di it's now gonna call that right here.
So if I press play the coin is okay the coin is there.
I've done it stupid.
In case you do this too.
I'm not gonna edit this out.
Got a coin.
Hit the animation player and just bring this all the way back.
We could do some function ready as well but make sure the animation is at the zero point.
Otherwise this is the property we'll show you.
So let's press play into the coin and leave and come back.
There isn't a coin I could even take a look at the same tree.
If you look at the scenery while the game is running remote this is what's actually in the game right
now.
So here we go on the coins.
There is nothing if I reload the level press remote coins.
Here's a coin.
Watch it.
The coin is gone.
This is a great way of seeing what's happening life in your life.
OK now let's have the coin make a noise.
So back into coin and we've got this audio stream 2D player.
Let's go into here and audio stream 2D player dot play one more time.
Back in the game there it goes.
Now maybe I don't want this in 2D maybe I actually just want to send the audio stream player.
So what I could do is just right click on it and you change type and the audio stream players the video
stream play today.
If I do that I just have to make sure this name still matches.
So I'm going to call this audio stream player because maybe I don't want positional information on the
coin.
Make sure that's the same name.
Press play another coin comes through both ears which great.
All right.
So that's looking pretty good.
However now let's update the actual game state so game state as we know is part of this group.
I'm sure I copy this name here go back into coin would be a brand new grip call so get tree do love
using group's core group and pace that game state and win the call one called coin up and we don't need
passing in their arguments every time this goes it's going to chasing other coins Great so now let's
go to game state and start putting coins.
So I need a variable called coins and it's going to start as zero.
Let's make a brand new function.
I'm going to put it above and gain because I don't I'm psychologically I feel like any game should be
last coin.
La la la la la.
Awesome coins plus equal one and now I want to update the gooey right 7 1/2 make a new function in the
gooey as well so get tree core group
gooey
update coins and a pass through the coins as argument great just exactly like update lives with some
updated information let's open the gooey scene so I can actually see what this is called I've Got a
coin count right.
So that's the bit I'm going to I'm going to be changing so I've got a brand new function and a brand
new pair of roller skates and you've got a brand new.
Now I'm sorry update coins coins.
Okay so we're going to be updating the text value in coin count.
Great some Italian coin count.
And there it is.
Dot text equals string coins.
Why string.
This is an integer text box needs a string.
So I need to cast this integer into a string.
Well that should work.
Let's find out.
I have zero coins.
I have one coin.
You might also notice I got 30 lines.
Why do I have 30 lives.
Honestly I was trying to do some bug fixing and I put the lives up like a contestant I forgot I've done
that.
Let's get rid of that and pretend nobody saw it.
So game states lives equals three.
Don't tell anyone.
Okay cool.
So here's an interesting bug we've just created.
What happens if I leave the coin and come back in really quickly one coin just gave me three.
Why.
Because every time I enter this coin while it exists this function can be triggered.
That's a real problem because if I'm if I know that's there I can cheat the system especially if we
stop putting extra lives.
So before we go any further let's get rid of that bug and we'll put a new variable in here called taken.
He calls false.
Set it up as a boolean with a default value of false.
And now what if not taken which is another way of saying if taken not equals true.
And I'm just going to hide these numbers tab and bring them all in.
Taken equals true.
So if not taken set taken to true and now played and the moment this happens this coin can't be collected
anymore.
So let's go back to the game and try to try again great.
I have one coin.
Okay.
Next thing I want to do is I want make sure that if we collect enough coins the lives will go up.
This is gonna be a little bit sneaky.
Let's go into here first.
I need to set targets number of coins.
It's hard to find a good name for this isn't it.
Okay so this is how many coins you need for new life.
And let's start with 10 to get 10 coins.
You got the life.
Okay.
So now when we get a coin up we need to check to create a brand new variable called multiple of coins.
Do you have a multiple of this many coins.
Okay.
Doing it this way means I don't have to set the coins to zero.
So if you collect 10 coins or 100 coins whatever it is you don't see your coins vanish.
Which is great because seeing your coins vanish doesn't necessarily feel good.
Okay.
So what I want to do is set this is a true false value.
Do you have that amount of coins.
So.
So my sneaky bit is this is coins modulated by target number of coins.
Okay so what this means is what's the leftover from here.
So if the left if I need 10 and I have 11 the leftover is one and I want this to be true with the leftover
is zero.
So let's talk about this is the variable multiple of coins is the same as the amount of coins left over
from the target number being zero.
So every time this value here coins has none left over from the Target line of coins every time it's
10 20 30 40.
This will be true any other time it'll be false.
Why am I doing that.
Because now I can go if multiple of coins life up which is going to be a brand new functions for that
function.
Life up should probably put my coin up shouldn't I was coin up.
Oh it's right next to it.
Perfect.
I did put it there.
I'm a professional.
Okay.
Lives plus equal one.
And to do this we just need to update the lives so we get in fact just call update Gary because that
does update Gary and that update the lives.
It occurs to me update lives up there.
Gary should be a single function so let's call this update gooey and is recovering and lives and coins
and now this could be update Gary.
And let's go back to the gooey script and here under update lives let's rename this to update.
I put capitals there.
Doo doo doo doo doo.
No I didn't.
That should be capitals subject gooey.
And it's to come with one argument of lives and another of queens are those in the right order.
Yes they are great.
So now I could just move this up and I can delete that line entirely.
So we have one function updates the gooey.
Okay so we now have a single update you either can bring lives and coins and a lot plate them each time.
And I have a life up there and update the gooey I've got a coin up the complete gooey it's looking pretty
good.
I think we'll get to go.
Let's test it out
please wait please wait please work my extra life.
Look at that.
Okay.
I'm feeling pretty good about that.
So I think we're in a good position.
I'd like you to make money rich please.
Coins aren't a level you can lead the play it's cool areas or show them risky things that they could
try out with coins so give that a shot you can use clusters with single coins in but post the video.
Make this your own.
And when you come back I'll do the same.
And welcome back.
So before I place them I'm going to switch off spinny and save that just so I can actually work with
it first and make sure that I've got a coin selected and I'm in move mode so she will get a coin and
let's move you over here
and what I'll do is once I've got a few here
I'll save make sure I not lose that well at work and you should be up here and you should be up here.
So that's get the play down here.
And down here as well and occurs to me some of these are not very easy to escape but that's all right.
And let's put some by these bouncy things that's gonna be fun.
And some of it here and safe
and he got this area.
This can be hard to spots on the show the play this is a secret.
Like so
and you know let's put a jump at there.
So back to my jump pants
duplicate that you over here.
Perfect.
And just in case that's not easy.
I'm going to add a new tile here.
So let's put my small tile light.
So let's see how it's looking so far.
And before any further let's go back to the coins and switch on the animation and press play
OK.
These coins are way too loud.
So let's do minus 15 and try that again.
I forgot from pick up 10 coins at once.
I won't hit a sound ten times
though.
Awesome.
So so far it's looking pretty good.
I'm actually pretty happy with that.
I'm a stop here for now.
So in this video we've looked at the animation play an ode which is a really powerful note and a brief
introduction to key frames.
We've also looked at calling functions and animation player which can do all kinds of cool stuff.
So how's your level looking where do you put in a bunch of coins are you even more generous than I am
with my coins or are you a little bit more realistic.
How's it looking.
Is it too difficult too easy.
Show your progress and fight.
I'm really curious.
You guys have got meanwhile great stuff.
And I'll see you on the next video.